Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I will share
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I will share the deck, and I will share the spreadsheets that we go over after this.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm happy to do that again, I'd love it if you guys are who are here are actually here and present. So on video, not on email and slack, and your phones.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I see a lot of people who aren't on video yet.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm gonna assume you guys are coming on video. If not, you can drop and watch the recording. So just make sure that you're here. If you're here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yep, alright. And this is, we're gonna do this interactively. So here's what the plan is. I'm gonna walk you through a couple of little an introduction to a deck. I'm gonna show you a very simple spreadsheet, and then I'm gonna give you a task, and the task is for you to build a spreadsheet like my very simple one. When I say simple, I mean, I do this on a whiteboard like you don't need excel. You could do it on a whiteboard. And then we're gonna have a few of you share what your work product was, and we'll be done with all of that within an hour. Okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: can I get a thumbs up from you guys that you're here? You're present. You're engaged your emails off. Awesome. Alright. I'm going to try to do this really quickly, but it's shocking to me how many startups haven't thought through this?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So if I do this right, I will share my screen, and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I will.
Lilliana Robinson: Troy. Can I ask you a question first, before you can?
Lilliana Robinson: Is it true, like the background for this? What Ferona told me is that you had a financial modeling kind of part to you taught at Kellogg. And then you realized that these founders could really use it. So you wanted to share is that the background.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah. So here's what's happened. You guys have most of you saw my financial modeling big talk, right? That we did a few what 4 weeks ago, or something like that. Right? Liliana. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Just about.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And it turns out that that's a little daunting for some people
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and and so I've reworked my entire financial modeling talk to start with this part which you're gonna see, it evolves, and I'll share with you at the end of the talk. How it evolves into something that looks a lot like Dollar Cave Club, but I am retiring. Dollar Cave Club.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright, so you can see my screen. I'm going to start rolling again. Blurt stuff out. This is for you. It's not for me. Don't be shy, and jump right in.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So again, I believe that financial modeling is a cheat code for operating a business. I always like to start with the objectives. This is the same. So you saw before. I want you to see the power financial model. Run your business. Better raise money more easily. Everybody wants to do those things. I'm going to give you some takeaways, and the same resources. Page that you saw before. Boom! So why should I care? Do you want to run your business better?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Do you want to make raising capital easier.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Do you want to make your business more predictable? Predictable is really, really, really important
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in business?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And a good model help you that. And then I give the example I gave last time, which is, if you knew you were going to grow 20, you could do great
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: if you knew you're gonna do 200. You could plan for that. You could do great. But if you plan for 20, if you plan for 200 growth and you got 20% growth. You're screwed.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And, by the way, if you plan for 20, you get 200, you're also in big trouble because you don't have enough inventory. You don't have enough customer service.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So and then we talk about financial models have to be dynamic. I'm going super fast because you guys have been exposed to this in the last financial modeling stuff.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But you know the world we change in. We operate in changes all the time. This is why I say, the only thing I know for sure about a model is it's wrong, because the minute you write it, the economic conditions change. The new technologies come out. I mean, think about how fundamentally different AI has made so many things that were, you know, in the last 18 months, competitors come out. We've global pandemics, right? So no matter how accurate it was when you started, it's it's never gonna be perfect.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But we can build a model that can change as conditions change. So I'm going to start with my simple example. This is the new content for you. So I want to be an entrepreneur. I love coffee. Who likes coffee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I see some hands. Okay, not everybody. Damn, I make the best coffee. I got this special secret ingredient, and I want to sell my coffee. And so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna create a lemonade stand except I'm gonna sell coffee. So I'm gonna picture like a little table, some boiling water and a yeti thermos pour overs. It's awesome, and I make better coffee. Everybody I share with it loves it, and I want to be an entrepreneur.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: See? But to quit my day job I need to be able to pay the bills.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I need 5 grand a month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's what I need.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and so I have to figure out
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: how much coffee do I need to sell to make my minimum?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How do I figure that out? Anybody have an idea how many cups of coffee do I have to sell to sell my minimum
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to to make my minimum make 5 grand
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: depends on the.
Mircea Gogoncea: I don't think.
Jeremy Banning: Costs and output costs, and then
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, exactly. It depends. So we're gonna cut over to a spreadsheet. In a second, I have to switch my sharing because I haven't optimized this really for
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Unfortunately, I haven't optimized this for
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: zoom, but let's do it. So I'm gonna share my screen again. And I'm gonna walk through.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I want this one alright share. Boom, alright. So here's the deal. You guys should be familiar with. This blue is inputs black or calculated. I got some inputs on my coffee. It turns out that you know I can buy coffee for 12 bucks a pound
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: pound of coffee makes 32 cups, so I divide those 2. You can see I did the math here, and I get it cost me 38 cents worth of coffee in a cup.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: My secret ingredients, which I can't tell you what it is, but that's a 6 cents the lid. The cream, the sugar cost me 77 cents to make a cup of coffee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: now let's take a look at what I sell the coffee for.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so if I sell the coffee for 2 50,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and it cost me 77 cents. I'm left with a buck. 74. There's some rounding because they're fractional pennies. It's close enough. Trust me, and and so it's a buck. 74 is what I make on each cup of coffee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, I said I wanted to make 5 grand.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so in order to make 5 grand. I take the 5 grand. I divide by the 174, and I get 2,882 cups of coffee a month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I can't get my head around that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so I divide by the 26 days a month. I plan on working. That's 111 cups a day. I can't get my head around that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I divide by the 8 HI plan on working a day, and that's 13.9 cups of coffee per hour.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So what this has told me
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is that in order to make a business that can pay me 5 grand.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have to sell 13 cups of coffee for 14 cups of coffee an hour, and I think that's too much. I don't. I could do that on busy hours, but I'm not going to sell that at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I think my business is going to fail. I'm going to just quit right.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Cameron. Why you shaking your head, why why shouldn't I quit.
Cameron M Kruger Gyftgram: You can increase the amount of profit that you would make on your cup of coffee in order to.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Her.
Cameron M Kruger Gyftgram: It's hours a day. You work.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So sure so I could do something like I could lower the I could buy cheaper coffee. I'm gonna buy $10 a pound coffee instead of 12 pound coffee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, well, that didn't make much of an impact. It went from 13 9 to 13 4. I want good coffee. I really like good coffee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What else if I, if I, changing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: reducing my cost, didn't help much? What else can I do.
Mircea Gogoncea: Increase the sale price.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How much should I charge for my coffee?
Cameron M Kruger Gyftgram: Depends.
Mircea Gogoncea: $4. Ford.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: $4 a cup, and now I only have to sell 7 cups of coffee an hour
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that feels more manageable. That's like one every 9 min, 10 min that feels manageable to me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: As a matter of fact, I think that feels good enough
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that I'm willing to to go out and actually start working on this business because I now have a target
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that in order to get this business running and break, even, I have to sell 7.4 cups of coffee an hour. I think I can do that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and and I think it's worth doing
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: every single business I have ever started.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have done this, whether it was on a simple spreadsheet like this.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: or it was on the back of a napkin, or it was on a whiteboard.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is the first step I take.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now I'm going to show you 2 more examples.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I see there are some questions in the chat. What's the chat? Say.
Lilliana Robinson: No, I.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay, got it. Okay, you're watching me. Alright. Let me give you 2 more examples. So if you remember, I started a company called sure payroll.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So sure payroll. It looks sort of like this, we I doing this one differently. I'm not doing it per month. I'm doing this per year, because we have some expenses. And so in my expenses. So our expenses are basically moving money between accounts. And so the number of employees that a customer has
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: dictates how many accounts we have to move back and forth. So the average we looked up in the public filings that paychecks had 14 employees and their average customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I did a little math about how many transfers. That is because there's some for taxes and other things. So it's number of employees plus a constant. It cost us about 3 cents an Ach! So 60 cents a payroll.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The average customer runs 20 payrolls per year. So that's 12 bucks in cost of moving money around. That's not very much.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, but then I had some other costs. So here's my! I brought my 12 bucks over here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Let's start at the top. I know that I'm charging on a per employee basis. I put this little formula in here. It was 1995, plus 50 cents a pay an employee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I know we're running 20 payroll. So that got me my revenue
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then my costs. I pulled the cost over from here, and then I had to customer service. I'm estimating it was 3 h of customer service a year at 25 bucks an hour.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's 75 bucks. So my total cost is 87. So I make 4 50
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: per customer per year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, I have some fixed costs here, some file servers, some couple of developers, a controller. I needed to put an office for them. That's about 450,000.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So in round numbers, if I have to cover $450,000, and I make 4 50 in contribution margin. I need basically a thousand customers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This make sense to everybody.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright, I'm going to give you one more example.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: different one, and this is a mobile app, and at apples.
Lilliana Robinson: Try. Yeah, in the gym.
Lilliana Robinson: How did you come to the estimate on customer service hours a year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I made that shit up.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But it's an input.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So if I'm wrong, it's a great question.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I just tried to like pencil it in what I thought it was going to be. I'm like, well, you know, in the first month they'll probably need an hour customer service. Maybe I don't know. It is a wild ask. Yes.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know. But if it if I'm off by factor of 2,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's actually not that big a deal.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because it went. Now I doubled my customer service hours. And now I need basically 1,200 instead of 1,000.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I can see the sense, the beauty of this is, I can see the sensitivity. So that was an excellent, excellent question.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: By the way, I didn't tell you the rest of the story. The rest of the story was, we started processing payroll.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and it turned out we didn't average 14 like paychecks, did.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We averaged 6 employees, for we ended up skewing towards a smaller customer base who had 6 employees like, Oh, no, I'm screwed. I'm going to have half the revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but it turns out I can just type in a 6 here. This is real life. This is what happened like, oh, crap! We're only averaging 6.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, you know what? It's not that bad. My revenue went down. I don't make 4 50 anymore. I make, you know, 3 77. And again it comes out to about 1,200. So it was a 20 difference in how many customers I needed. It wasn't a hundred percent difference.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You see how, even in this very simple one tab.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: this is a dynamic model where I have inputs. And I have outputs.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right, let me show you the third example.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: a basic iphone app.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So this time I did it. It says annual. But it's really lifetime, because most iphone most consumer facing iphone apps. Don't
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know, the monthly. So the subscript average subscription is well under a year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But anyway.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so this time I said, well, I gotta pay to acquire the customer my variable expenses, and I put in 25 bucks for customer acquisition. I'm gonna have to pay apple tax
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: of 30%, right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So that's based on what my revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I guess I should update that to say, average
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm you can tell. This is my Mvp and I guess that should say average also.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So anyway, so so I had that I'm charging 999. The average customer stays 5 and a half months. So I make a total of 54, 95 times the 30 cents gets me the cost here you can see it. That gets me the apple tax.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so I've cost the $41.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I had revenue of 54. So 54, minus 41 gets me 13. So I make 13 bucks on each customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have some servers for the back end. I said. I've got some developer costs. I've got to pay the found or something.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I need $250,000.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If I'm only making $13 a customer. I need 18,000 customers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Can I get 18,000 customers?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I don't know.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It also quickly gets you some levers here. If you realize, if you're going to, if you think you only can charge 5, 99.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, I lose money on every customer. I'm out of business
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like it. The math doesn't even work. It comes up to negative 127,000 customers. That's because you have a negative like it. You're out of business right? If your churn is such that your average customer only stays 3 months, you're out of business
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like you see that you can play with some of these levers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So here's what I wanna do.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What I want to do at this point is, I want
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: first, I want to take questions on this. Now, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna reshare my screen with all 3 of these examples, the simple coffee stop
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the sure payroll and the basic mobile app, and I want you each to build.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Take 10 min and build your version of this.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How many customers, how many transactions, how many subscriptions? I don't know what your businesses are. They're all different. Do you need
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to break even? And I think most of you are going to be sort of similar to
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: this payroll, where you have some costs
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: of delivering your service. That could be. Api calls for the AI engine. Whatever it could be.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You have some amount of revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You subtract out all of your costs that are variable costs
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that gets you a contribution margin per customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then you have some things that you need to keep the doors open. This is the indirect cost
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: or overhead cost. Then you figure out how many of those transaction subscriptions.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: etc. You need to to take to break. Even does this make sense any questions about the assignment? And then what we're gonna do is I'm gonna have like, like a couple of you share these and say, Oh, I had a lot of problems I didn't understand. Here's how my business works. And there's gonna be a bunch of learning around
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: this very basic feasibility. Valeria.
valeria brenner: Okay, I have kind of like, a, okay. So our business model, we sell shipping labels. And so how do we go about doing it when it's dependent on. Yes, the number of customers we get, but also the number of shipping labels we.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, one of your assumptions is, how many shipping labels does a customer have.
valeria brenner: Okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Does your average customer have right.
valeria brenner: Yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So you're trying to figure out your average. I'm just setting up right now, the other the other windows so that we can see all, you'll be able to see all 3 of them on your screen at once.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And then I need one more. So. Yes. Do you have that just like I had an assumption of how many employees do I have per
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: customer in the payroll business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because we charge more based on the
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: number of we charge based on the number of employees you would have. How many shipping labels does the average customer buy
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? Does that make sense.
valeria brenner: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: And since Valeria has re real customers already, should she just pull the average? That's like that is.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So for this exercise I would encourage you to not spend a waste a lot of time on researching averages, but rather to just put in what your best guess is. Later on you'll be able to. More important is that you get the math correctly correct. Later on you'll be able to tweak it and put your actual, more precise numbers in.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm going to share my screen so that you can see all 3 models. They might be a little small. I apologize, but you can see all 3 now. I'll try to make them a little bigger for you and and take. We're going to take literally.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: will take 12 min. And I want you each to build a model
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like this for your business. And then we're gonna we're gonna have one at a time. We're gonna have a couple of you guys share, and we're gonna talk through them all right. Go
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: feel free to hit me up in chat. If you have questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, there's one question in the chat. So go ahead and start, guys. But Jeremy asked, can you show the formula for the total contribution margin.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So in this one it's just a sum of revenue minus total cost.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And oh, wait! Do I have the same one up? I have the same one up twice for my simple coffee stand
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: oops. I gotta shrink this. Sorry.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know. Contribution per cup is again revenue minus cost.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And and then for basic mobile app. I sorry I didn't.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I I got 3 copies up. I just didn't switch to the various tabs.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Again. It is gonna be your total revenue, minus your variable costs.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So it's the same in all 3. It's revenue minus variable costs.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Trying to arrange these so they can be as big as possible.
Lilliana Robinson: It's it's legible how it is right now, if you just click.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Ok, Bye.
Lilliana Robinson: See one, since it's overlap.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep.
Lilliana Robinson: so like.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That all right.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This looks really simple on the surface. And I think you're gonna find it's more difficult than you thought.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And the fun part Liliana is, I'm going to randomly pick people to share. How about that?
Lilliana Robinson: That's always fun.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Keep them on their toes.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Better make sure you're building. It
Lilliana Robinson: also doesn't need to be perfect. The whole.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: No, it won't be perfect. And don't worry about putting pretty boxes and making it look nice like I just don't worry about that.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, like Troy said at Kellogg, the business school. He has them right on a whiteboard, so you could even like write this out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean, really, though, Troy, like what you want, like everybody here should be chomping at the bit to get your eyes on their model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I mean.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Make my business better. Please help me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Think so.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm a little biased, though, Neil.
Lilliana Robinson: How many minutes do we have left for them? Try.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We're gonna go. Sorry we started at 48. So we're gonna go to the top of the hour to give them 12 min. So
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you got
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 7 and a half minutes left.
Lilliana Robinson: Perfect.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. You should be thinking about wrapping up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: oops.
Lilliana Robinson: Troy. Is there meant to be a document over some of this.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, I don't know why that came up. Sorry! That's
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'll move it.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. 1 min. Left. Everybody.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Thanks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I should have moved it earlier.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right, you guys ready who wants to go first?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Valeria? Awesome. I will stop sharing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and you can share.
valeria brenner: Okay. Awesome. Let me hold on. Share my screen.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I would actually love it if your peers are the ones who are making more of the comments than me. But
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: let's see what happens here.
valeria brenner: Okay, very bare bones. Here's what I came up with for the very.
Lilliana Robinson: Start, start, start with a 10 s overview of what your business is. Cause.
valeria brenner: Okay, yeah, we sell shipping labels to small businesses on Instagram. So we just help them ship out their products back faster. And they just buy usps, shipping labels from us.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Kay.
valeria brenner: And then so I looked at the variable expense for transactions. They cover the payment processing costs, and then we're about to switch over to a shipping program that actually won't have a label Api cost cause they make revenue off of the shipping labels. They sell to us as like a commission from Usps. And so I looked at just the cost to acquire a customer, for right now.
valeria brenner: Then, in the contribution margin section. I looked at the revenue per label sold. So we earn 30 cents on every shipping label sold. The average label sold per transaction is 6.7. And so we earn around $2 and one cents per transaction.
valeria brenner: And then the average number of transactions they do in a month is 4, and the average lifetime. I didn't have time to look that up was 5.5. I just like copied it from you, and I was like, oh, sure, that sounds about right. And so the average revenue I earn a year per customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Can you click into that cell?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 44 22? Nope.
valeria brenner: Yes, so I did.
valeria brenner: the revenue per transaction times 4 transactions a month, times of average lifetime of 5.5.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Great.
valeria brenner: So we got $44 and 22 cents, minus the cost of goods. Sold, says $41
valeria brenner: per customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay.
valeria brenner: And then I looked at gross profit to cover weekly overhead. And so for founders, there's 2 of us. So I did like a hundred 50 for 2 people, and then we spent.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So annual overhead.
valeria brenner: Yes.
valeria brenner: and so.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It says weekly, that's all.
valeria brenner: I got sorry I was playing around with different things and so then, we spend around 10,000 on like front end developers cause. It's me and a CTO. So he does most of the development work. And so the estimate of like 10 K development work and then for operations I just like didn't have time to crunch everything. But I was like, sure, like the website Api we pay for was $90 or sorry the email ap the email Api service we pay for is that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It'll it'll go up over time. But so you basically need about 4,000 customers
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: break even here. And how are you acquiring these customers. You had a customer cost of $3. That seems really low to me.
valeria brenner: So right now all of our customer acquisition is organic, but we just launched an ambassador program where any ambassador who enjoys using us like reps us. And then if someone signs up using their link, they earn $3 and shipping label credits.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Got it.
valeria brenner: And that's how I got that Cac.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So do you think you can get to 4,000 customers organically?
valeria brenner: Yes.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Awesome. Well, Leanna is her hand up.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, why is B, 7 0. The labels really cost nothing.
valeria brenner: Well, right now they cost like
valeria brenner: 3 cents ish per label like the Api fee. But then we're gonna move over to Easy Post, and then the first, like 100,000 labels you ship with or like, generate through them. There's 0 Api fees, and then they're going to. We're looking at like getting a unique deal with them. We might not have to pay those Api fees.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, interesting. Yeah, that's not how I thought it worked. That's cool.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Awesome.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So there are a couple people with hands up.
Lilliana Robinson: Think they're volunteering to go.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Volunteering to go. Question.
Lilliana Robinson: Is anyone asking something or commenting on Valerias?
valeria brenner: Please give me feedback guys.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So, you know, I think you're. I think this is really interesting. So before you did this, did you have in your head that you needed 4,000 customers break. Even
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: did you have any idea how many you needed to break even.
valeria brenner: Nope.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay, this is a number you all should have in your head that you should. It'll change over time, and you'll refine it. But you can now start updating these numbers. And this is
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: this is just like to get a feasible business like, if this number had come out to say 100,000 you would have been like, Oh, damn
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right like! And then you would have had to rethink your business model for either need to make more money and need to reduce cost, etc. But I think this is a really great first step. So thank you for being the first one to share that was awesome.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Liliana, you wanna manage us. Who's next.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, Mircha.
Lilliana Robinson: you can go and.
Mircea Gogoncea: Alright. Thank you, everybody. I'm gonna.
Lilliana Robinson: Mirrocha, you're really quiet. Is there a way to make you.
Mircea Gogoncea: About that. Yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Probably picking up the wrong mic or something.
Lilliana Robinson: He has a very intense setup, so I'm sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well while he fixes it, Troy, I was just gonna say that. And this might be true with your experience, too. I know a lot of founders, Meredith in particular, who like to put that number up somewhere like physically.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like it's like,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Goal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Progress towards it. Exactly. That's a very common thing.
Mircea Gogoncea: Is this better?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now.
Mircea Gogoncea: No, it's add.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Staticky, and now.
Mircea Gogoncea: Okay, it's different. I'm
Mircea Gogoncea: I'm so sorry I don't know what the issue is.
Lilliana Robinson: We can hear you from the other one. Just go back to how it was before. It's okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You might need to project.
Mircea Gogoncea: Tai ray.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Voice, which we know you're very good at.
Mircea Gogoncea: Hello! Everybody!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay, that's better.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mic.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Yeah. Here you go for.
Mircea Gogoncea: This is this is the same. Okay, it doesn't matter.
Lilliana Robinson: The lines. Yep.
Mircea Gogoncea: Okay, we have a bit of a weird case, because we have 2 different revenue streams. We have subscription and transactional revenue. So a quick overview of the business.
Mircea Gogoncea: We help musicians make more money. They pay us a subscription to use our services, and we also enable some extra transactions at their concerts that they couldn't have done otherwise. So we take 10% of every transaction, and we take $30 as a subscription. But because about a third of our users are annual. The average revenue per user from subscription is actually $21 when you blend the 2 together.
Mircea Gogoncea: Anyway.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, can you just like zoom it.
Mircea Gogoncea: I can make it very much bigger. Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you.
Mircea Gogoncea: Okay, where do we start, Troy? Would you like me to walk you through this.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah.
Mircea Gogoncea: Okay. So first of all, I came up with this cac out of my behind. We've never done paid ads. So I don't know what this would be. Right now it's 0. But let's assume that we do something like that. So I don't know. $40 transaction fees is not what we charge is what stripe and shopify, and all the other providers that we work with charge us in transactions that comes out
Mircea Gogoncea: to an average of this, when you consider how many there are generally on average per month, and what the value is of each one.
Mircea Gogoncea: We take 10% so our total take you know, take rate from a Gmv of $612 per user would be something like 61 when you combine that with the average subscription price times the number of lifetime months, you get $420 from subscription $61 from a transactional. So
Mircea Gogoncea: this is wrong. Scenario 61 plus.
Mircea Gogoncea: Oh, yeah. Cause this is a monthly sorry. And I was, I was just. I just switched into yearly there. That doesn't actually matter. So it's 21 plus 61 equals 82 and then our variable expenses are these ones per user, c, 9 is over here. So this, this total cost per user. So total contribution margin is this much per user per month. So if we pay ourselves much more actually than we pay right now 75 k. Per year comes out to 12 and a half for each founder per month.
Mircea Gogoncea: and let's say, $500 in all the subscriptions that we use, and the servers and all the other stuff that is, $13,000 per month. So we would need 545 customers to cover that. However, a lot of these numbers are kind of made up 12 transactions per month. Well, if we have a great artist that could be 120 transactions a month, boom could be a hundred dollars in total transactional value. But maybe in this case we need a hundred dollars. Maybe we need 200
Mircea Gogoncea: dollars to get this user. I don't know. We might need $2,000 to get this user, because it's a vip. So yeah, this is highly dependent on a lot of different inputs.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, and I I. So I think this is great.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I think that you will play with these. I'd encourage you to do some color coding. So you know, what's an input? What's a formula like I did the blue and the black. You can do whatever colors you want, and then what you want to do is focus on which of these variables really matter? Do a sensitivity analysis? So which of the variables when you change them? Oh, my God! They have a huge impact on my, on my numbers, and which of them don't really matter so much, and have a small impact on my numbers and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I think that's how. And then you're gonna go run some real world tests
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to see
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like what's gonna actually so, you know, if I go back to my coffee one I could have put into the formula. I'm gonna charge $50 for a cup of coffee, and it would have looked really good on the spreadsheet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but I'm not going to be able to sell coffee for $50. So just because it says it on the spreadsheet doesn't mean you can do it in the real world.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so this is your opportunity to start to ask questions and be like, what do I think you know, how do you find out what the average transactions per month are? How do you find out if your 10% take rate is a fair take rate. Can you get 20? Because if you can get 20,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's gonna more than cut in half. So let's just try this. My.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I am predicting that if you take your 10%, change it to 20, you're going to be down to not half of 5, 45, but something under 200?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What about 1 52.
Mircea Gogoncea: Amazing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You would think it was twice because. But it's not because you have this cost of the transaction that didn't change. So this is why these numbers matter.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I think you did an awesome job. I would love to see you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: refine this and go out to the real world and figure out what some of these real numbers are, especially the Cac.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And yeah,
Mircea Gogoncea: And and this is also hard, because depending on the type of artist that we work with. It could be some people we talk to some people that sell $10,000 worth of merch at one concert. That's incredible. But most people sell like 200, maybe less. So. Yeah.
Mircea Gogoncea: yep, it. But.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But it's giving you an idea of what your levers are.
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry. There's a question in the chat about this, I think. I think. Do you have to factor in taxes somewhere?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So for those of you who are worried about factoring taxes like income tax. Don't worry about it. You're not going to be profitable. You're not going to be paying income tax for a long time, and if you are, that is a champagne problem.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I hope you're all paying income tax because you're make. You have profitable businesses, very few. I can't think there's only one business that I know. The only business I can think of that's really paid any meaningful income tax that came out of techstars in any period of time is trading to like most of these businesses. You're raising money. You're raising money because you're raising money. You have spent more than you've actually
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: earned, because raising money doesn't count as revenue. So you're actually negative. You're in the hole, and then you carry those losses forward into future years. It'll be a long time before you're paying income tax. Don't worry about it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you did, you could just say 30% or something. But that's later, no income taxes. All right, let's take the next one who's next.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I think if we do 3 of these we could do 3 or 4. It's up to you, Liliana, but I think you're getting the gist of it, and then and then I want to take a couple of minutes to to tell the rest of the story, so I would love to have 5 min at the end. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: We'll see if we can get to you, Snow. But let's do. Antonio Antonio high level 10 s, what does aware? Do.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, it's a wearable, a couple with an app that measures your stress and anxiety and gives you actionable recommendation to announce your mental wellbeing every day.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So we make money out of subscription and hardware
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: with customer acquisition $25 per customer
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Do you think you're gonna acquire customers for $25 on a 300 wearable.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: It's probably well, what I was saying is 2 2. Was that 2.5
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: $2.5 per click click first customer.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: so that would be.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And you're not gonna close 10%.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Like you should be. So what you should do is go look at some companies that have
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: shared this information, whether they're public companies, or they've had
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: data. But I'm trying to think like Fitbit was a public company. You could look up Fitbit and find out what did fit it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What was their customer acquisition cost? I'm guessing it was. Yeah, you're closer. It might even be higher than that. But anyway.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you'll do that later. And the point of this exercise, by the way, is, if your math is correct.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: we can plug in new numbers there and then we get better answers like we should focus on getting the math correct. We know the assumptions are wrong, but alright great. So this is sort of like my aura ring.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Right? It's, I think ring is 499. The hardware was about 300 bucks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Exactly Cox available. I mean, I think, yeah. Didn't include the here. This.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: we we it's it's it's possible $50 we we have to see for us, you know.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: once, if we do go to production, I think this number might might vary. But then here's where. Okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Can you? What's in B 12. What's the formula on B 12.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Look,
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Click on b.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 12. Yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Scott.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Depth
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: now, yep.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and then. So these would be the total contribution margin. So $200 per customer.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and then I I put backhand to developers, front end and back end
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: to ponders, hardware design, industrial design and packaging shipping.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And I. We came out with 2,200 customers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How does that feel to you?
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: It's actually feels good, because in the financial model there was, there's so many numbers in our financial. This gives me an idea. Oh, if you want to do a crossfinding campaign, this is what we need.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So it it looks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now you. You have another issue, though. So when I look at this, I'm like 2,000 customers. Great.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but I have to pay for the manufacturing of 2,000 of these wearables.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Right? So that's gonna be what $100,000 I gotta pay upfront probably 6 months before I get any revenue
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna have to pay for some of this customer acquisition costs, but it gives you an idea of how big the the nut is. This is this is great.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We have time, I think, to do snow.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Great, thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Are you familiar with Runbear, or have? Are you in starboard snow?
Snow Lee / Runbear: I mean, start starboard.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, yeah. Give it 10 s.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Yeah. So we help customers create custom Gpts and integrate
Snow Lee / Runbear: them into their communication platform, such as slack Hubspot Microsoft teams.
Snow Lee / Runbear: So this is, the the really quick, simple financial model. So about the experience.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Again. I wanna I'm gonna use the term financial viability as separate from the financial model. The model is when we start looking forward and doing all the stuff we did
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: with Dollar Cave Club. So this financial
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but viability, anyway.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Yeah, thank you.
Snow Lee / Runbear: So who?
Snow Lee / Runbear: the expense? We haven't tried the so so we don't know the number of
Snow Lee / Runbear: but customer Acquisition coast.
Snow Lee / Runbear: but I put them $100 for here and we recently decided to provide some of the open AI coast so free tokens to the customers. So we added some of the that coast
Snow Lee / Runbear: per customer so annually we expect $200 per customer
Snow Lee / Runbear: and about the contribution margin. So our average subscription fee is $99. And then we have around 10% monthly turn rate. So.
Snow Lee / Runbear: It's not the dollar, so it's a it's a.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Percent. It
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: number Yup.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Yeah. And there's a revenue can be 909 $90 and the variable subtracting variable expense. We got the 790
Snow Lee / Runbear: and server at this is not the actual number, so we just put the 10 k.
Snow Lee / Runbear: And the the the salaries
Snow Lee / Runbear: so overall overhead is 270 k. So.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How are you gonna get customers for 100 bucks like cause that has to include
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: all of your car? I think you're gonna have to have salespeople to do this? I don't maybe not. Maybe you can do this with just ads and self service.
Snow Lee / Runbear: That's a good point. So until now, we run the content marketing to get the customers. But definitely, we need to hire salesperson. If we hire sales person? Do I need to put it the overhead or.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Is it you have to.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: To decide. So is that part of your is that part of your
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: customer acquisition cost? Or is it part of your overhead. You can. You can decide.
Lilliana Robinson: What would?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Ways.
Lilliana Robinson: Because I got a question privately what that was like? What is the difference between variable expenses? And overhead? I thought it was that one is like more fixed. Is that correct?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, so so there is some gray areas so variable, or expenses are generally the expenses that go up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: as your number of customers goes up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and overhead is generally the stuff that doesn't really change. So your rent, your CEO salary that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And it turns out that with salespeople and with customer service people. It's really a stair step function like you hire one customer service person. Maybe they can handle 200 customers, and then at some point you hire a second one for the next 200,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so you can treat it either way. But you have to account for it somewhere, because you're going to spend some money on salespeople, and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I would tend to think that what's gonna happen with your salespeople like I did
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like I did with
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: well.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: at sure payroll. I knew that each salesperson could bring in 15 new customers a month, and so I knew what my customer acquisition cost was because it was the salary and commission and benefits of a salesperson divided by 15,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and it was way, more than a hundred dollars.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Definitely out, yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You may, you're doing something different. So it might be. But now we know. Okay. So if I were doing, if I were in your shoes. I'd be like, all right. I want to dive deep on what it's gonna I want to run some tests right now and customer acquisition. I want to do some. I want to do some Wizard of Oz test I want to do. See if marketing can get me like key to this. I think that number is going to be like 400. 500. I mean B twob. Companies that I have in our portfolio that are acquiring customers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Nobody's acquiring them, for under a hundred bucks
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and you gotta figure out that customer acquisition motion. But that's where I would be focusing. But I think this is great, so real quickly. Are there any questions about this process?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Hopefully, you've seen you saw my 3 examples. You saw 4 of your peers examples. Does this. Make sense to you guys
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: if you need help.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: They're folks at at techstars that can help you. I am going to share my screen again, and I'm going to do something.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna take you through the rest of the the next step in the presentation.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does this replace the need for these founders to finish their financial models?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, God! No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. Good.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: God, no, I'm gonna take.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, say, it had to say it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yes, alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm going to
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: maybe share my screen. If I can find here we go share my screen. I have too many windows on one screen. Now, alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm going to share my screen, and I'm going to go to back to the deck.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So this was a very simple model. It was easy to understand. It was linear. It was predictable. If the cost change, I could change the number of cups I had to sell right? I could go. But my job now was to go test this against the real world.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So we're back to my coffee cart. Then what happens is.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the health inspector closes me down. They're like, Damn! You can't do that. You can't sell food outside without a license.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I realize
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to make this business real.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have to go find customers. I've got to find an indoor place where they're aggregated. It turns out they're a bunch of large apartment buildings. Everybody needs coffee. I I'm gonna install kiosks, self serve kiosks with my special coffee in the lobbies of these apartment buildings.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But now that's gonna require me to spend about $5,000 in building out physical infrastructure. I need a $3,500 machine. I have to keep some inventory. I need credit card processing for 3.5.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I need I'm gonna run a 12 month trial in each building.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So let's take a look at what that looks like.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So here is the model, the viability, feasibility model that we were just looking at. This is the same one. All these numbers should look exactly what you're used to.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but we've added some things
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you'll notice that I've added in yellow these additional things that I need to put into my model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I don't know where they go, because they don't really go with variable expenses. They don't really go with monthly overhead. They're kind of one time. It's
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's weird.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So what I'm going to do is I'm going to reorganize these into a different shape.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So these are the same numbers on the right. I've just made them look like an income statement, so we can see that my number of cups sold came right here from my number of cups to sell
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: my revenue per cup came right from my revenue per cup. I multiply those 2. I get a total revenue number. Now it's starting to look like an income. Statement.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: My direct expenses came by totalling the number of cups times my cost per cup.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I got a gross profit of $5,000. I had operating expenses of $5,000. So I got 0
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: net profit. Oh, well, that's because that's how we solve, for we solve. For how many cups do I need to break even to pay myself 5 grand
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: perfect.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: what do I do with these one-time expenses?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm going to make a time-based model. So here's what I did.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What I did was I took that income statement and I said, but before I start up I've got to buy the build out, and I've got to buy the coffee machine.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And now, all of a sudden, you'll see that I've lost almost $10,000
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in the first month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, that sort of sucks, and you know what else sucks is that I'm losing 1,316. I wait. I thought I was break even. Why am I losing $1,300 every month?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Wasn't I break even? What happened?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Does anybody see.
Mircea Gogoncea: There's an extra credit card processing thing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, I gotta pay for credit card processing that 3 and a half. So that's $216. Where's the rest of it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: turns out I needed a telephone line because I need to telephone into the credit card machine.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I snuck this in that. You actually have to pay taxes on employees.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you add those 3 up, 2, 16, plus 100 plus 1,000 is
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 1,316. So I'm actually losing 1,300 bucks a month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well! And this isn't really fair. I don't want to lose all this money in the first month, so there's this magic trick we do in accounting called depreciation.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Where what we do is we decide we're not gonna actually, we're not gonna actually charge ourselves for this in one month. We're gonna charge ourselves for this over the useful life. And so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take this
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 5,000, 3,500, divide by 12 and charge myself. I'm using air quotes, charge myself 1, 12 of it each month, because it has a useful life at 12 months.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And now what happens is, I got a loss of $2,000 every month, but at least it's even
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Why am I losing money? I thought this was going to be a profitable business. Why isn't this a profitable business?
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: Is it because the customer acquisition cost got higher?
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: And since you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: There's no customer acquisition cost, because I'm just sitting in a lobby of an apartment building.
valeria brenner: Is it cause? The like sales you have is still for that break, even without putting those new factors into consideration.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's true.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But what happened here is I have a kiosk that is a self-serve kiosk in an apartment building, and I'm paying
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: a salary for a human being to maintain one kiosk.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's not very efficient.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right it? I may as well not have the kiosk and have the human being serving the coffee right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So it turns out that I should have multiple locations.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I've taken the same spreadsheet. I've just highlighted in yellow the things that are gonna change. So if I go to 2 locations, I'm gonna have twice as many sales. I'll twice as many cost of good sold twice as many credit cards twice as many telephones, twice as much build out and twice as much equipment.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But you'll notice I don't have to have twice as much salary or taxes, because one person can manage 2 locations.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and when I go to 2 locations
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm profitable.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because now, instead of being effectively charged, the full $6,000 in salary for one location. It's split over 2 each one's only charged 3,000, and I get to profitability.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: As a matter of fact.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: one person can do a lot more than 2. Maybe one person can manage 4 locations.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: My spreadsheet says one person could manage 4,000 locations, 40,000 locations, whatever number you want.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but that's not going to happen in the real world.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: One person can't. I mean I it'd be nice. I'd make $15,000 a profit every month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But let's go to 4
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: at 4 locations.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: One person managing 4 locations with these kiosks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I make $10,000, basically a month. That's starting to feel like a good business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: However, there's a problem.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What's the problem?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm running out of time.
Mircea Gogoncea: At all.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, I'm not growing, because I'm in a lobby of an apartment building. I can't grow. I don't have any way to get customers. So.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Coast, goes up.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Huh!
Snow Lee / Runbear: As the initial cost goes up is, if you increase.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, and it's not shown on here because we depreciated it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so we need to look at our cash flow.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And in our cash flow. You'll see that we actually are out of business in the first month, because we had to pay for $34,000 worth of equipment in the first month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, crap! This is why we need to take an investment.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So let's say, we raised 40 grand.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now the 40 grand that we raised can cover our cost of startup, and then we can actually make money, and we turn the 40 grand of investment into 159 grand by the end of the year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I don't have time to go through the whole detail with you, but I want to show you there's also a balance sheet in here which shows you your liabilities. Here's the 159 grand we just saw at the end of the year. There's some interesting stuff in here where you can see we bought $34,000 worth of equipment.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We have that equipment.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but we depreciate or have accumulated depreciation that goes up every month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: such that by the end of the year we've depreciated the full 34 grand. So on our books, we've paid for the equipment, and it's worth 0 on our books right now.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So this is the next step. This is, I think, the level of detail you all should be at now.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I'm going to share these files with you. The step after this. By the way, as I'm teaching this now is basically Dollar Cave Club, except what I do is, I say, oh, the coffee is so good that people want to buy it on the Internet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so I take this business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I start adding a subscription for coffee service. I have Facebook ads, Google, Ads, Cac Ltv. Churn all the things that you add in Dollar Cave Club. And I get this fancy model that looks just like the Dollar Cave Club model, except it's for Angel Street coffee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I don't have time to show you that because I have a call and I have somebody in my waiting room now, but I will send you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the Dac. Which is not too different than the deck you had last time. It's just different template. I'll send you the first model we used
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: this model, which is the level I think you guys should be at today, and then I will send you the third model that we did not review. That's going to look complicated.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But it's basically this business adding subscription like Dollar Cave Club on top of it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright.
Lilliana Robinson: I mean. Thank you so much. Troy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Thank you. Troy.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I would love feedback if this made sense. I felt a little rushed to me. But, this is the first time I'm doing this for a techstars cohort.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Obviously, what I think I want to do next time is, do this stuff in the very beginning of of the session.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then, a couple of weeks later, pick it up and say, now, here's what it can look like in the future and send you the Dollar Cave Club, or the more sophisticated model. I gotta run. I apologize.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You! The best.
Lilliana Robinson: And thank you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: See you all.
valeria brenner: I.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you very much.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Yeah, much.
Lilliana Robinson: Who asked that? Okay? Mircha asked a question in the chat. I'll respond to him later. Thanks. Everybody.